The Amazon Rainforest, a wonder of Jehovah's creation.
It has the greatest level of biodiversity in a tropical forest in the world.
Right in the heart of the state of Amazonas, Jehovah's Witnesses had an additional reason
to meditate on the creator's abilities and to be eternally thankful to him.
On the day before the dedication of the new assembly hall,
special arrangements were made to receive the various visitors
that observed all the progress of the construction project,
the reaction of neighbors,
public authorities, researchers, and environmentalists was not worthy.
I was surprised.
Sometimes it's hard to believe that people who are not professional construction workers
were able to do this.
According to what I was told,
the work was all done by volunteers.
For me, that was impressive.
When I saw in your brochures that more than 4,000 workers had been here,
voluntarily making it happen,
then the impact for me was something sensational.
I was impressed.
This is an art.
Administrating things in this way is an art.
I really like this place.
We were really well received when we arrived.
The next day, despite the heavy rain which is common in the region,
there was a great deal of emotion among the almost 2,000 brothers
that attended the dedication program.
This was an unforgettable moment,
especially for all who participated in the construction project.
We have been waiting for a place like this.
This really is a gift from Jehovah.
I heard brothers here say many times.
For 20 years, we have wandered in an assembly hall.
We looked into so many plots of land
and had so many difficult situations.
A brother even commented that when he was buying land,
someone chased after him with a machete.
When we arrived here in Manaus,
the brothers would talk of how they experienced such things.
But the brothers spoke with joy and respect about this building.
They came with joy to the construction site.
The events that took place here during the construction
show that Jehovah directed things.
And that Jehovah is very interested in this empty light
in the middle of the forest.
We give thanks to Jehovah that we were tired to become pioneers.
Because we had not been tired to pioneer 10 years ago.
We wouldn't have had the time that we did to dedicate to this work.
It's a fact that we draw close to him.
And it makes us think that, sorry,
that we made the right decision.
Once more, Jehovah's marvelous personality
is evident in the Amazon.
His name is properly represented in the region.
And now our brothers have an excellent place to worship Jehovah.